#  Classifier for Human Brain Mental Attention State using EEG BCI-based data

### CS 532 Intelligent Computing - Project Phase 2 (Due 25th March, 2020) 

#### 21100187, 21100130

> By using electroencephalography (EEG)  based BCI intrinsic or passive activity data self-generated by specified individuals under  simulation or obtained live [3], we aim to detect and classify the current mental attention state  of an individual into several categories of states, the most prominent being - focused  , unfocused  (may also be described as lost-in-thought or mind-wandering) and drowsy  (or sleep). The  classification of an individual’s mental attention state has various applications such as  monitoring control tasks where high focus and concentration levels have to be maintained  ranging, such as the detection of driver fatigue or classroom student attention [4]. However,  there are several problems with the recognition of a BCI user’s cognitive state that dynamically  varies and affects classification performance along with the lack of interpretability and  availability of BCI obtained datasets. A complete EEG data processing and classification pipeline  will be designed and developed including a neural network based classifier as well as a hybrid  neuro-genetic fuzzy system (HNGFS) for this task. 


1. Requirements gathering.
2. The classifier has to be NN / Fuzzy (ANFIS) / GA based. TBD. Model design required.
3. Need to find more datasets or collect data ourselves. Online Kaggle dataset `https://www.kaggle.com/inancigdem/eeg-data-for-mental-attention-state-detection`
4. Training.
5. Analysis of results.
